# ip filter 术语

- Drop/Deny - When a packet is dropped or denied, it is simply deleted, and no further actions are taken. No reply to tell the host it was dropped, nor is the receiving host of the packet notified in any way. The packet simply disappears.
    - packet直接被删除，发送方不会收到被丢弃的消息，packet直接消失了
- Reject - This is basically the same as a drop or deny target or policy, except that we also send a reply to the host sending the packet that was dropped. The reply may be specified, or automatically calculated to some value. (To this date, there is unfortunately no iptables functionality to also send a packet notifying the receiving host of the rejected packet what happened (ie, doing the reverse of the Reject target). This would be very good in certain circumstances, since the receiving host has no ability to stop Denial of Service attacks from happening.)
    - 和drop/deny一样，但还会向发送方发送packet被drop的响应；但接收方不知道发生了这件事，这在一定程度上是好事，例如发生了DoS
- State - A specific state of a packet in comparison to a whole stream of packets. For example, if the packet is the first that the firewall sees or knows about, it is considered new (the SYN packet in a TCP connection), or if it is part of an already established connection that the firewall knows about, it is considered to be established. States are known through the connection tracking system, which keeps track of all the sessions.
- Chain - A chain contains a ruleset of rules that are applied on packets that traverses the chain. Each chain has a specific purpose (e.g., which table it is connected to, which specifies what this chain is able to do), as well as a specific application area (e.g., only forwarded packets, or only packets destined for this host). In iptables, there are several different chains, which will be discussed in depth in later chapters.
    - 一个chain就是一组规则的集合（a ruleset of rules），这个规则会被应用到所有经过这个chain的报文。
- Table - Each table has a specific purpose, and in iptables there are 4 tables. The raw, nat, mangle and filter tables. For example, the filter table is specifically designed to filter packets, while the nat table is specifically designed to NAT (Network Address Translation) packets.
- Match - This word can have two different meanings when it comes to IP filtering. The first meaning would be a single match that tells a rule that this header must contain this and this information. For example, the --source match tells us that the source address must be a specific network range or host address. The second meaning is if a whole rule is a match. If the packet matches the whole rule, the jump or target instructions will be carried out (e.g., the packet will be dropped.)
- Target - There is generally a target set for each rule in a ruleset. If the rule has matched fully, the target specification tells us what to do with the packet. For example, if we should drop or accept it, or NAT it, etc. There is also something called a jump specification, for more information see the jump description in this list. As a last note, there might not be a target or jump for each rule, but there may be.
    - 在规则集合里边的每一条规则都有自己的一个目标，换成更容易理解的话就是动作
- Rule - A rule is a set of a match or several matches together with a single target in most implementations of IP filters, including the iptables implementation. There are some implementations which let you use several targets/actions per rule.
- Ruleset - A ruleset is the complete set of rules that are put into a whole IP filter implementation. In the case of iptables, this includes all of the rules set in the filter, nat, raw and mangle tables, and in all of the subsequent chains. Most of the time, they are written down in a configuration file of some sort.
- Jump - The jump instruction is closely related to a target. A jump instruction is written exactly the same as a target in iptables, with the exception that instead of writing a target name, you write the name of another chain. If the rule matches, the packet will hence be sent to this second chain and be processed as usual in that chain.
    - 和target很像，不同点在于，jump需要指定另外一个chain的名字
- Connection tracking - A firewall which implements connection tracking is able to track connections/streams simply put. The ability to do so is often done at the impact of lots of processor and memory usage. This is unfortunately true in iptables as well, but much work has been done to work on this. However, the good side is that the firewall will be much more secure with connection tracking properly used by the implementer of the firewall policies.
- Accept - To accept a packet and to let it through the firewall rules. This is the opposite of the drop or deny targets, as well as the reject target.
- Policy - There are two kinds of policies that we speak about most of the time when implementing a firewall. First we have the chain policies, which tells the firewall implementation the default behaviour to take on a packet if there was no rule that matched it. This is the main usage of the word that we will use in this book. The second type of policy is the security policy that we may have written documentation on, for example for the whole company or for this specific network segment. Security policies are very good documents to have thought through properly and to study properly before starting to actually implement the firewall.


### netfilter

- netfilter project: provides packet filtering software for the Linux 2.4.x and later kernel series.
- The netfilter project is commonly associated with iptables and its successor nftables.
- The netfilter project enables packet filtering, network address [and port] translation (NA[P]T), packet logging, userspace packet queueing and other packet mangling.
- The netfilter hooks are a framework inside the Linux kernel that allows kernel modules to register callback functions at different locations of the Linux network stack. The registered callback function is then called back for every packet that traverses the respective hook within the Linux network stack.
- iptables is a generic firewalling software that allows you to define rulesets. Each rule within an IP table consists of a number of classifiers (iptables matches) and one connected action (iptables target).
- nftables is the successor of iptables, it allows for much more flexible, scalable and performance packet classification.

### nftables

- nftables 主要由三个组件组成：内核实现、libnl netlink 通信和 nftables 用户空间。
  - 其中内核提供了一个 netlink 配置接口以及运行时规则集评估
  - libnl 包含了与内核通信的基本函数
  - 用户空间可以通过 nft 和用户进行交互。
- nftables 和 iptables 一样，由表（table）、链（chain）和规则（rule）组成，其中表包含链，链包含规则，规则是真正的 action。与 iptables 相比，nftables 主要有以下几个变化：
  - iptables 规则的布局是基于连续的大块内存的，即数组式布局；而 nftables 的规则采用链式布局。其实就是数组和链表的区别
  - iptables 大部分工作在内核态完成，如果要添加新功能，只能重新编译内核；而 nftables 的大部分工作是在用户态完成的，添加新功能很 easy，不需要改内核。
  - iptables 有内置的链，即使你只需要一条链，其他的链也会跟着注册；而 nftables 不存在内置的链，你可以按需注册。由于 iptables 内置了一个数据包计数器，所以即使这些内置的链是空的，也会带来性能损耗。
  - 简化了 IPv4/IPv6 双栈管理
  - 原生支持集合、字典和映射
- nft 需要以 root 身份运行或使用 sudo 运行

## 参考

- [Netfilter hooks](https://wiki.nftables.org/wiki-nftables/index.php/Netfilter_hooks)
- [nftables 使用教程](https://fuckcloudnative.io/posts/using-nftables/)
- [https://www.netfilter.org/](https://www.netfilter.org/)
- [过渡到 nftables](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/88981486)
- [[译] 深入理解 iptables 和 netfilter 架构](https://arthurchiao.art/blog/deep-dive-into-iptables-and-netfilter-arch-zh/)