## 项目

https://github.com/hwdsl2/setup-ipsec-vpn

## 服务端配置

https://github.com/hwdsl2/setup-ipsec-vpn/blob/master/README-zh.md

```
wget https://get.vpnsetup.net -O vpn.sh && sudo sh vpn.sh
```

或者用docker

```
docker run \
    --name ipsec-vpn-server \
    --restart=always \
    -v ikev2-vpn-data:/etc/ipsec.d \
    -v /lib/modules:/lib/modules:ro \
    -p 500:500/udp \
    -p 4500:4500/udp \
    -d --privileged \
    hwdsl2/ipsec-vpn-server
```

## 配置IKEv2客户端

https://github.com/hwdsl2/setup-ipsec-vpn/blob/master/docs/ikev2-howto-zh.md

## 配置IPsec/L2TP客户端

https://github.com/hwdsl2/setup-ipsec-vpn/blob/master/docs/clients-zh.md

```
进入设置 -> 通用 -> VPN。
单击 添加VPN配置...。
单击 类型 。选择 L2TP 并返回。
在 描述 字段中输入任意内容。
在 服务器 字段中输入你的 VPN 服务器 IP。
在 帐户 字段中输入你的 VPN 用户名。
在 密码 字段中输入你的 VPN 密码。
在 密钥 字段中输入你的 VPN IPsec PSK。
启用 发送所有流量 选项。
单击右上角的 完成。
启用 VPN 连接。
```

## 各vpn协议的对比

https://www.security.org/vpn/protocols/

- OpenVPN is an open-source VPN released in 2001 that has continually improved since. Now the gold standard of VPN protocols, it’s compatible with cutting-edge encryption standards and provides fast and reliable speeds.
- WireGuard is much newer, released in 2015. It’s comparable to OpenVPN in terms of security and encryption, but many consider it faster and more reliable.
- IKEv2 is often paired with IPSec (Internet Protocol Security) to create a secure VPN tunnel. IKEv2/IPSec is lightweight and adequately secure. It’s also agile, since it’s one of the few protocols that can re-establish a VPN connection when you switch networks (e.g. from mobile data to Wi-Fi).
- L2TP, much like IKEv2, is often paired with IPSec. It was developed in the 1990s by Cisco and Microsoft, and it was considered secure at the time. It still has zero known vulnerabilities, but many people believe it’s no longer safe from government spying, especially by the NSA.
- PPTP is the oldest VPN protocol to become widely available, and many people see it as obsolete in terms of security. It’s fast and can still provide adequate privacy, however, albeit with a lower encryption standard.

| VPN protocols | Speed | Security | Ease of use |
|--|--|--|--|
| OpenVPN | Moderate | High | High |
| WireGuard | High | High | Moderate |
| IKEv2/IPSec | Moderate | Moderate | High |
| L2TP/IPSec | Moderate | Moderate | Moderate |
| PPTP | High | Low | High |

- OpenVPN is a good general-purpose protocol for ensuring your privacy. It’s very secure, but you may see a slight drop-off in your internet speed.
- WireGuard is both fast and secure. It’s still in development and most VPN providers are yet to implement WireGuard, but like OpenVPN, it’s great for a day-to-day VPN.
- IKEv2/IPSec’s ability to connect quickly makes it great for mobile phones using cellular data.
- L2TP/IPSec is best for manual VPN configuration since it’s easy to set up. It offers adequate security and decent speeds, but there are security concerns, so you may not want to use it for transmitting highly sensitive data over the internet.
- PPTP is an obsolete VPN protocol with limited applications. It’s easy to set up, though, so it’s worth looking into if you want to run your own VPN server at home.